Issue2144 (#2424)
Codecademy/docs: content/python/concepts/built-in-functions/terms/hash/hash.md

---
Title: 'hash()'
Description: 'Returns the hash value as a fixed sized integer.'
Subjects:
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Integers'
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Input'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The built-in **`hash()`** function returns the hash value of an object as a fixed sized integer. The object can be of various types, including numbers, strings, tuples, or custom objects that have implemented the `hash()` method. The hash value is computed using a specific hashing algorithm based on the object's type. It's worth noting that the `hash()` function is a built-in function in Python and doesn't require any import statements. Hash values are useful for efficient comparison of dictionary keys during lookups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The built-in **`hash()`** function returns the hash value of an object as a fixed sized integer. The object can be of various types, including numbers, strings, tuples, or custom objects that have implemented the `__hash__()` method. The hash value is computed using a specific hashing algorithm based on the object's type. It's worth noting that the `hash()` function is a built-in function in Python and doesn't require any import statements. Hash values are useful for efficient comparison of dictionary keys during lookups.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
hash(object)
```

> The `hash()` function takes a single argument, `object`, which represents the object for which you want to obtain the hash value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `hash()` function takes a single argument, `object`, which represents the object from which to obtain the hash value.
```

The `object` can be of any hashable type, such as numbers, strings, tuples, or custom objects that implement the `hash()` method.

## Example

> The example below begins by defining a class called `MyClass` with an attribute called value. The `hash()` method is implemented to customize the hashing behavior based on the value attribute using the `hash()` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below begins by defining a class called `MyClass` with an attribute called value. The `__hash__()` method is implemented to customize the hashing behavior based on the value attribute using the `hash()` function.
```

Two instances of `MyClass` `obj1` and `obj2`, are created with different values. The `hash()` function is used to calculate the hash values of these objects. And these values are then printed to the console.

> This example demonstrates how to customize the hash function for a class using the `hash()` method. The `hash()` function allows us to obtain the hash value of an object, which is an integer used for quick comparison and dictionary key lookups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates how to customize the hash function for a class using the `__hash__()` method. The `hash()` function allows us to obtain the hash value of an object, which is an integer used for quick comparison and dictionary key lookups.
```

---
Title: 'hash()'
Description: 'Returns the hash value as a fixed sized integer'
Subjects:
- 'Data Science'
- 'Computer Science'
Tags:
- 'Integers'
- 'Functions'
- 'Input'
- 'Methods'
- 'Output'
- 'Print'
CatalogContent:
- 'Learn Python 3'
- 'Learn Data Structures and Algorithms with Python'

---

> The built-in **hash()** function returns the hash value of an **object** as a **fixed sized integer**. The object can be of various types, including **numbers, strings, tuples, or custom objects** that have implemented the **hash()** method. The hash value is computed using a specific hashing algorithm based on the object's type. It's worth noting that the **hash()** function is a built-in function in Python and doesn't require any import statements. Hash values are useful for efficient comparison of dictionary keys during lookups.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The built-in **`hash()`** function returns the hash value of an object as a fixed sized integer. The object can be of various types, including numbers, strings, tuples, or custom objects that have implemented the `hash()` method. The hash value is computed using a specific hashing algorithm based on the object's type. It's worth noting that the `hash()` function is a built-in function in Python and doesn't require any import statements. Hash values are useful for efficient comparison of dictionary keys during lookups.
```

Reviewer 2: The subject function of the entry is only formatted in bold the first time it appears. The other instances the function and other coding keywords are set off with backticks (``). Please update the rest of the entry accordingly.

Two instances of **MyClass** obj1 and obj2, are created with different values. The **hash()** function is used to calculate the hash values of these objects.

Then, we print the hash values of these objects using the **print(hash(obj1)) and print(hash(obj))** (https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/built-in-functions/print) command.

This example demonstrates how to customize the hash function for a class using the **hash()** method. The **hash()** function allows us to obtain the hash value of an object, which is an integer used for quick comparison and dictionary key lookups.

```py
# Define a class
class MyClass:
    def __init__(self, value):
        self.value = value

    def __hash__(self):
        return hash(self.value)

# Create instances of MyClass
obj1 = MyClass(42)
obj2 = MyClass("Hello")

# Check the hash values
print(hash(obj1))
print(hash(obj2))
```

## Codebyte Example

In the example below, we define **my_tuple** as "1, 2, 3". Subsequently, we use the **hash()** function to obtain the hash value of the input **my_tuple**. Followed by using the **print()** function in order to print the output of the **hash()** function.

> ```codebyte/python

Reviewer 2: the code block is missing the closing backticks

Author: Entered closing backticks
